---
layout: default
title: About
---

<article id="about">

h1. About

!http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/0f4e496a1dd3c0166af5527febb30dc6?rating=PG&size=150! My name is Miha Hribar. I am a _professional hobbyist_, Co-Founder and CTO of "Toshl(Toshl - Making Finance Fun)":http://toshl.com.

I have over 10 years of experience in buidling scalable web applications. My daily toolset usually contains a subset of the following:

<ul class="longlist">
	<li>PHP</li>
	<li>Java</li>
	<li>JavaScript</li>
	<li>MySQL</li>
	<li>Objective-C</li>
	<li>Ruby</li>
	<li>C++</li>
	<li>R</li>
	<li>Git</li>
</ul>

h2. Talks

While I'm not particularly fond of public speaking, I have given a few talks on various subjects on local conferences and meetups.

* <time datetime="2012-10-24">24<sup>th</sup> October 2012</time> "API - State of the art":/talks/api-state-of-the-art, Spletne urice
* <time datetime="2009-11-14">28<sup>th</sup> November 2009</time> "Continuous Integration":http://www.slideshare.net/mihahribar/continuous-integration-2606686, Webcamp LJ
* <time datetime="2009-05-27">27<sup>th</sup> May 2009</time> "Keširanje dinamičnih vsebin":http://phpkonferenca.si/2009/predavanje-kesiranje-dinamicnih-vsebin, PHP konferenca
* <time datetime="2007-11-14">14<sup>th</sup> November 2007</time> "jQuery":http://www.slideshare.net/mihahribar/jquery-11996194, Spletne urice

h2. Networks

You can find me on various trendy and not so trendy (social) networks.

<ul class="longlist">
<li>"Github":https://github.com/mihahribar</li>
<li>"Linkedin":http://www.linkedin.com/in/mihahribar</li>
<li>"Twitter":https://twitter.com/mihahribar</li>
<li>"Stackoverflow":http://stackoverflow.com/users/165708/miha-hribar</li>
<li>"Facebook":https://www.facebook.com/mihahribar</li>
<li>"Foursquare":https://foursquare.com/mihahribar</li>
<li>"Slideshare":http://www.slideshare.net/mihahribar/</li>
</ul>

h2. Props

This site is built, or better _statically generated_, with "Jekyll":https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll. What you see is my attempt at styling a blog with "Frameless grid":http://framelessgrid.com/, "LESS CSS":http://lesscss.org/ and embelished by "Typekit":http://typekit.com font "Adelle":https://typekit.com/fonts/adelle-web. Full source code is available on "github":https://github.com/mihahribar/mihahribar.github.io and you are free to use it as you please (except for the content in the @posts@ and @images@ folder for which you must ask permission).

</article>
