---
layout: post
title: Book Review - Essential PHP Security
category: books
tags: [book review, php, security]
description: Essential PHP security book review.
keywords: essential php security, book review
---

We've all written unsecure code. Then tried to circumvent our weak security measures. It made us better programmers, and made us sleep better knowing our applications were safe. But there is just so far your imagination can go, while thinking up ways to get inside your perfectly secure system.

h2. 8 chapters. 30 exploits. Impossibly small

"Essential PHP Security(Essential PHP Security by Chris Shiflett)":http://phpsecurity.org by "Chris Shiflett(Chris Shiflett: The PHP Blog)":http://shiflett.org brings you those ideas in a book that looks rather, well small. We've all gotten used to those big, heavy, shelf bending computer books, but this one has just 124 pages. Allow me to get a bit poetic: <q>Don't judge the book by its covers</q>, or rather by the number of pages. This book is the _essential_ reading for all <acronym title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</acronym> developers, professional and hobbyist alike. It is one of those books that will not get outdated and will be referenced on a daily basis.

h2. Summary of content

* Chapter 1. Introduction
* "Chapter 2. Forms and URLs(Download Chapter 2 of the book)":http://phpsecurity.org/ch02.pdf _(chapter availible for download)_
* Chapter 3. Databases and SQL
* "Chapter 4. Sessions and Cookies(Download Chapter 4 of the book)":http://phpsecurity.org/ch04.pdf _(chapter availible for download)_
* Chapter 5. Includes
* Chapter 6. Files and Commands
* Chapter 7. Authentication and Authorization
* Chapter 8. Shared Hosting
* Appendix A: Configuration Directives
* Appendix B: Functions
* Appendix C: Cryptography

h2. Conclusion

I really enjoyed reading this book. It made me realize that some of my approaches were a bit misslead, but mostly solidified my way of coding. And that is really what I was looking to get out of this book.
